.ve-header "Diary #5" https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA019 "Menlo Park N.J. July 12, 1885" pct:30,30,60,40 center sticky
    - [Home](/)
    - [About](/about)==placeholder=={Menlo Park N.J. July 16, 1885}==placeholder=={Menlo Park N.J. July 16, 1885}[]
    
# Diary #5 

## Menlo Park N.J. July 16, 1885

### Page 1

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA019 left

I find on waking up this morning that I went to bed last night with the curtains up in my room=glad the family next door retire early  I blushed retroactively to think of it  Slept well weather clear warm. Thermometer prolongatively progressive day so fine that barometer anaethized breakfasted Diaried al lot of nonsense  Read some of ==Longfellows Hyperon=={Q16386175}, read to where he tells about a statue of a saint that was attacked with somnambulism and went around nights with a lantern repairing roofs, especially that of a widow woman who neglected her family to pray all the day in the church Read account of two murders in morning Herald to keep up my interest in human affairs Built an air castle or two  Took my ==new shoes=={description="On June 18, Edison ordered a fourteen dollar pair of shoes from Adam Young, a “French Boot Maker” at 1144 Broadway in New York. Voucher (Laboratory) no. 323 (1885)."} out on trial trip Read some of ==Miss Clevelands book=={Q117762288} where she goes for ==George Eliot=={Q131333} for not having an heavenly amen streak of imaginative twaddle in her poetry The girls assisted by myself trimmed the Elizabeth collars on twelve dasies, inked eyes nose & mouth on the yellow part which gave them a quaint human look, paper dresses were put on them

### Page 2

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA019 seq=2 left

and all were mounted on the side of a paper box labelled "The Twelve Daughters of Venus" I hope no College bred ==dude=={description="'Dude' was a recent American slang term for “a man affecting an exaggerated fastidiousness in dress, speech, and deportment,” synonymous with a dandy. Its usage had become common in New York to describe “swells” who paraded themselves in fashionable attire along the avenues and at summer resorts. The activities of these “dudes” were often covered in the press, so that they became arbiters of fashion."} will come down here and throw out insinuations that Venus was never married, and never had any children anyway Girls went in bathing. Me and ==Damon=={description="Damon was Edison’s literary nickname for Ezra Gilliland, a reference to the Greek mythological figure who, with Pythias, personified unstintingly loyal friendship."} went out in the ==steam Yacht=={Q7605392} sailed around over the ==lobster nursery=={description="Edison and Gilliland most likely visited a natural nursery in Boston Harbor, as the U.S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries was just in the process of establishing a managed lobster hatchery at Woods Hole, Martha’s Vineyard, which in any case was too distant for their day’s expedition. Lobster larvae float with the tide until reaching the postlarval stage of development, when they settle to the bottom in nurseries. Boston Harbor was notable for its natural nurseries, though these were becoming depleted."} for an hour or so In the evening Damon started a diary very witty ==Miss Igoe=={description="Louise M. Igoe (1858?– 1936) of Indianapolis was visiting Boston as a guest of Lillian Gilliland. A friend of Mina Miller’s older sister Jane, Louise introduced Mina to the Gillilands. She later married Mina’s older brother Robert Anderson Miller. Her brother Philip married Lillie Fox, Lillian Gilliland’s friend, in 1886."} told Damon she couldnt express her admiration, whereupon he told her to send it by Express freight. Lunched our souls on a ==Strauss waltz=={description="It is unclear to which member of the famed Strauss family Edison referred. Johann Strauss (1804– 1849) and his three sons all composed waltzes in the Viennese style, but the most popular were those by Johann Strauss II (1825– 1899)."} played by ==Miss Daisy=={description="Grace 'Daisy' Gaston (1859– 1940), daughter of John M. Gaston, a prominent Indianapolis physician, was Ezra and Lillian Gilliland’s guest at their rented summer home during Edison’s earlier visit from late June to early July. She was still there, perhaps according to a plan to introduce Edison to eligible young women, when he returned on July 14."}, then we all set around the table to write up our diaries. I learned the girls how to make shadow pictures by use of crumpled  paper we tried some experiments in mind reading which were not very successful. Think mind reading contrary to common sense, wise provision of the ==Bon Dieu=={description="The Good Lord"} that we cannot read each others minds twould stop civilization and everybody would take to the woods in fifty or hundred thousand centuries when mankind have become perfect by evolution then perhaps this sense could be developed with safety to the state. Damon 
    
### Page 3

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA019 seq=3 left

and I went into a minute expense account of our proposed ==earthly paradsise=={description="Edison referred to the homes and laboratory that he and Gilliland proposed to build in Fort Myers, Florida."} earthly paradise in the land of Flowers, also a duplicate north and we concluded to take short views of life and go ahead with the scheme. It will make a savage onslaught on our bank account. Damon remarked that now all the wind work is done there only remains some little details to attend to such a "raising the money" etc. ==Mrs Roberts=={description=" This was very likely Hinda Roberts, née Barnes (1839– 1909), whose husband, George Litch Roberts, was a patent attorney with offices at 95 Milk St., Boston, in the same building as Ezra Gilliland and the American Bell Telephone Co., for which he did extensive defense work. Hinda had attended Wesleyan Academy in Wilbraham, Mass., and Mount Holyoke (apparently without graduating), and she and her husband were known to be accomplished musicians."} hurt her ==Sophrano arm=={description="Edison meant soprano arm, the right arm for playing the higher notes on the piano."} and could not come over an play for us as promised and thus we lost her perfumed conversation lovely music and serephic smile La femme qui-rit Since Miss Igoe has been reading Miss Clevelands book her language has become disyllibic dissyllabic, ponderous, stiff and formal, each observation seems laundried If this weather gets much hotter, Hell will get up a reputation as a summer resort. ==Dot=={description="Marion Estelle (Dot) Edison (1873-1965) was the oldest child of TAE and Mary Stilwell. Edison gave her the nickname 'Dot' as a child. Between 1883 and 1888 she attended private schools in New York and Massachusetts.  In 1889, she left school to join her step-aunts Mary Emily Miller and Grace Miller in Paris. She came back to the United States in 1892 but returned to Europe the following year. She married Oscar Oeser, a German army officer, on October 1, 1895 and lived in Germany for the next thirty years. Their marriage began to deteriorate during World War I. They divorced in 1921. She returned to the United States in 1925 and lived first in East Orange, New Jersey and then in Norwalk, Connecticut."} asked how books went in the mail. Damon said as second class matte mail matter. I said Me and Damon would go at this rating suggested that Mina would have to pay full postage. Damon thought she should be registered This reminds me that I read the other day of a man who applied for a situation as sexton in the Dead letter office. ==Daisies sisters=={description="Daisy Gaston had two sisters—Olive and Amelia Love—who respectively would have been about fifteen and thirteen years old."}

### Page 4

.ve-media https://edisondigital.rutgers.edu/iiif/MA019 seq=5 left

photograph rests on the mantel, shews very beautiful girl every fly that has attempted to light on it has slipped and fallen. going to put piece of chalk near it so they can chalk their feet.  this will permit with safety the insectiverous branch of nature to gaze upon a picture of what they will attained after ages of evolution. Ladies went to bed, this removed the articulating upholstery, then we went to bed.

.ve-graphic [https://www.flickr.com/photos/mastatelibrary/9458639237/in/album-72157634970087059/](https://drive.google.com/drive/my-drive) 

Woodside Villa Boston Harbor 
